Cut 0.0.113 (#1917)
lightningdevkit/rust-lightning: CHANGELOG.md

# 0.0.113 - Dec 15, 2022 - "Big Movement Intercepted"

## API Updates
 * `ChannelManager::send_payment` now takes an explicit `PaymentId` which is a
   loose idempotency token. See `send_payment` docs for more (#1761, #1826).
 * HTLCs bound for SCIDs from `ChannelManager::get_intercept_scid` are now

>    intercepted and can be forwarded manually over any channel (#1835, #1893).

Reviewer: Fair point

>    intercepted and can be forwarded manually over any channel (#1835, #1893).

Reviewer 2: Ok fair enough :)

 * `Confirm::get_relevant_txids` now returns a `BlockHash`, expanding the set

>    of cases where `transaction_unconfirmed` must be called, see docs (#1796).

Reviewer 2: heh fair enough 😁

 * Pending outbound payments are no longer automatically timed-out a few blocks
   after failure. Thus, in order to avoid leaking memory, you MUST call
   `ChannelManager::abandon_payment` when you no longer wish to retry (#1761).
 * `ChannelManager::abandon_payment` docs were updated to note that the payment
   may return to pending after a restart if no persistence occurs (#1907).
 * `Event::PaymentReceived` has been renamed `Event::PaymentClaimable` (#1891).
 * `Event` handling is now optionally async for Rust users (#1787).
 * `user_channel_id` is now a `u128` and random for inbound channels (#1790).
 * A new `ChannelReady` event is generated whenever a channel becomes ready to
   be used, i.e., after both sides sent the `channel_ready` message (#1743).
 * `NetworkGraph` now prunes channels where either node is offline for 2 weeks
   and refuses to accept re-announcements of pruned channels (#1735).
 * Onion messages are now read in `CustomOnionMessageHandler` rather than via
   `MaybeReadableArgs` (#1809).
 * Added a new util to generate an invoice with a custom hash (#1894) -
`create_invoice_from_channelmanager_and_duration_since_epoch_with_payment_hash`

>  * `Sign`ers are now by default re-derived using `KeysInterface`'s new

Reviewer 2: Ah my bad. Was bit confused given the docs of `derive_channel_signer`.

   `derive_channel_signer` rather than `read_chan_signer` (#1867).

>  * `Confirm::transactions_confirmed` is now idempotent (#1861).

Reviewer 2: Hmm this was more an attempt to be more consistent with our previous release notes, where we've most of the time used `chain::` to refer to the interfaces in the `chain` module. Though I see one instance in a previous release note where we've used the `Confirm` only. But the other occasions of referring to the different interfaces have used `chain::`. 

Feel free to ignore this though, as I understand that you may want to prioritize keeping the lines short :).

>  * `Confirm::transactions_confirmed` is now idempotent (#1861).

Reviewer 2: Yeah, let's keep it as it is then :)

 * Several helpers for transaction matching and generation are now pub (#1839).

## Bug Fixes
 * Fixed a rare race where a crash may result in a pending HTLC not being
   failed backwards, leading to a force-closure by our counterparty (#1857).
 * Avoid incorrectly assigning a lower-bound on channel liquidity when routing
   fails due to a closed channel earlier in the path (#1817).
 * If a counterparty increases the channel fee, but not enough per our own fee
   estimator, we no longer force-close the channel (#1852).
 * Several bugs in the `lightning-background-processor` `future` feature were
   fixed, including requirements doc corrections (#1843, #1845, #1851).
 * Some failure messages sent back when failing an HTLC were corrected (#1895).
 * `rapid-gossip-sync` no longer errors if an update is applied duplicatively
   or in rare cases when the graph is updated from payment failures (#1833).
 * Sending onion msgs when we're the introduction node no longer fails (#1791).

## Backwards Compatibility
 * No `ChannelReady` events will be generated for previously existing channels,
   including those which become ready after upgrading 0.0.113 (#1743).

>  * Once `UserConfig::accept_intercept_htlcs` is set, downgrades to LDK versions

Reviewer 2: Fair enough :)

 * `Event::PaymentReceived` has been renamed `Event::PaymentClaimable` (#1891).
 * `Event` handling is now optionally async for Rust users (#1787).
 * `user_channel_id` is now a `u128` and random for inbound channels (#1790).
 * A new `ChannelReady` event is generated whenever a channel becomes ready to
   be used, i.e., after both sides sent the `channel_ready` message (#1743).
 * `NetworkGraph` now prunes channels where either node is offline for 2 weeks
   and refuses to accept re-announcements of pruned channels (#1735).
 * Onion messages are now read in `CustomOnionMessageHandler` rather than via
   `MaybeReadableArgs` (#1809).
 * Added a new util to generate an invoice with a custom hash (#1894) -
`create_invoice_from_channelmanager_and_duration_since_epoch_with_payment_hash`
 * `Sign`ers are now by default re-derived using `KeysInterface`'s new
   `derive_channel_signer` rather than `read_chan_signer` (#1867).
 * `Confirm::transactions_confirmed` is now idempotent (#1861).
 * `ChannelManager::compute_inflight_htlcs` has been added to fetch in-flight
   HTLCs for scoring, note that `InvoicePayer` does this for you (#1830).

>  * Added the chan we received a payment on to `PaymentReceived` events (#1856).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 * Added the channel over which we received a payment to `PaymentReceived` events (#1856).
```

 * Signing for non-zero-fee anchor commitments is supported again (#1828).
 * Several helpers for transaction matching and generation are now pub (#1839).

## Bug Fixes
 * Fixed a rare race where a crash may result in a pending HTLC not being
   failed backwards, leading to a force-closure by our counterparty (#1857).
 * Avoid incorrectly assigning a lower-bound on channel liquidity when routing
   fails due to a closed channel earlier in the path (#1817).
 * If a counterparty increases the channel fee, but not enough per our own fee
   estimator, we no longer force-close the channel (#1852).
 * Several bugs in the `lightning-background-processor` `future` feature were
   fixed, including requirements doc corrections (#1843, #1845, #1851).
 * Some failure messages sent back when failing an HTLC were corrected (#1895).
 * `rapid-gossip-sync` no longer errors if an update is applied duplicatively
   or in rare cases when the graph is updated from payment failures (#1833).
 * Sending onion msgs when we're the introduction node no longer fails (#1791).

## Backwards Compatibility
 * No `ChannelReady` events will be generated for previously existing channels,

>    including those which become ready after upgrading 0.0.113 (#1743).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   including those which become ready after upgrading to 0.0.113 (#1743).
```
